# Contributing Guidelines

:+1::tada: First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! :tada::+1:

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to the Singularity
Project. Feel free to propose changes, as this is a living document.

Singularity, including all related modules, follows the
[Singularity Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

**Table Of Contents**

<!--
    TOC generated by https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc
    Regenerate with `npx doctoc CONTRIBUTING.md`.
 -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [How can I contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  - [Pull Requests and Reviews](#pull-requests-and-reviews)
    - [Reviewer Responsibilities:](#reviewer-responsibilities)
  - [Landing Changes](#landing-changes)
- [Issues and tracking](#issues-and-tracking)
  - [Good First Issues](#good-first-issues)
- [Additional Developer Notes](#additional-developer-notes)
  - [Add a new CLI command](#add-a-new-cli-command)
  - [Testing](#testing)
  - [Code Style](#code-style)
  - [Code Generation](#code-generation)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->


## How can I contribute?

Here at `singularity`, there’s always a lot of work to do. There are many ways you can support the project, from progamming, writing, organizing, and more. Consider these as starting points:

- **Submit bugs**: Perform a cursory [search](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/issues) to see if the problem has already been reported. If it does exist, add a 👍 to the issue to indicate this is also an issue for you, and add a comment if there is extra information you can contribute. 
If it does not exist, [create a new issue](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/issues/new/choose) (using the Bug report template).

- **Write code:** Once you've read this contributing guide, check out [Good First Issues](#good-first-issues) for well-prepared starter issues.

- **Improve or write documentation:** Docs live at [singularity/docs/en](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/tree/main/docs/en).

- **New ideas:** Open a thread on the [Discussion Board](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/discussions).


### Pull Requests and Reviews

We review every change before merging to `main`, using GitHub pull requests. **Try to keep PRs small**, no more than 400 new/changed lines. Code reviews are easier, faster, and more effective when the diff is small.

Strive to separate refactors, renames, and significant clean-ups from changes in functionality.
Break a large effort into multiple smaller PRs. Each such PR should be self-consistent, well-tested, and a clear step forward, but need not be a complete implementation of a large feature.
Sometimes other strategies (like an integration branch) make more sense; propose this to your reviewers beforehand.

Merging a PR to `main` requires maintainer approval. The following process aims to merge code quickly and efficiently while avoiding both accidental and malicious introduction of bugs, unintended consequences, or vulnerabilities.

1. Committers require approval from any single maintainer, before [landing](#landing-changes) their own PRs (maintainers require approval from any committer).

If your PR hasn't been reviewed in 3 days, pinging reviewers via Github or community chat is welcome and encouraged.

We use the following conventions for code reviews:

- "Approve" means approval. If there are comments and approval, it is expected that you'll address the comments before merging. Ask for clarification if you're not sure.
- "Request Changes" means you don't have approval, and the reviewer wants another look.

- By default, code review comments are advisory: the reviewee should consider them but doesn't _have_ to respond or address them. Comments that start with "BLOCKING" must be addressed and responded to. If a reviewer makes a blocking comment but does not block merging (by marking the review "Add Comments" or "Approve") then the reviewee can merge if the issue is addressed.

In rare cases, a maintainer may request approval from all maintainers for a wide-reaching PR.

#### Reviewer Responsibilities:

**Avoid lengthy design discussions in PR reviews.** If the conversation snowballs, prefer to merge and spin out an issue for discussion, and then follow up on the process failure that led to needing a big design discussion in a PR.

### Landing Changes

We strongly discourage merge commits on the `main` branch. When merging to main:
- squash your PR's commits into one commit with an encompassing message, and
- rebase against main so that your commit lands as a "fast-forward", without a merge commit.

At the command line, update your branch with `git fetch origin +main:main; git rebase main`.
"Merge" your changes with `git checkout main; git merge --ff-only <mybranch>`, and push.

On GitHub, use the grey "updated branch" button, which adds a merge commit to your branch, but then land your changes with the "rebase and merge" or "squash and merge" options on the green merge button.
Both of these will rebase your branch, squashing out any trailing merge commits in the process.

We may enable GitHub branch protections requiring that a CI build has passed on the branch, that the branch is up to date with main, or both.
If either protection is not in force, committers should use their best judgement when landing an untested commit.

## Issues and tracking

We use GitHub issues to track all significant work, including design, implementation, documentation and community efforts.

### Good First Issues

Ready to begin? Here are well-prepared issue templates for
* [Bug Report](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/issues/new?assignees=xinaxu&labels=bug%2Ctriage&projects=&template=bug_report.yml&title=%5BBug%5D%3A+)
* [Feature Request](https://github.com/data-preservation-programs/singularity/issues/new?assignees=xinaxu&labels=feature+request%2Ctriage&projects=&template=feature_request.yml&title=%5BFeature+Request%5D%3A+)

To pick up an issue:

1. **Assign** it to yourself
2. **Ask** for any clarifications via the issue
3. **Create a PR** with your changes
4. **Link** the PR to the issue

## Additional Developer Notes

### Add a new CLI command
- Create a handler implementation under `handler/*` directory
- Make proper godoc comments for the implementation
- Add the handler function to the interface under `handler/*/interface.go`
- Update the MockHandler under `handler/*/interface.go`
- Create unit tests for this handler implementation
- Create a function to document the swagger API `func _(){}`
- Create corresponding API route handler in `api/api.go`
- Create a CLI command under `cmd/*` directory
- Update `cmd/app.go` to register the new command
- Add the CLI command unit test in one of `cmd/*_test.go`
- Optionally add CLI command integration tests in `cmd/functional_test.go`
- Run `make generate` or `go generate ./...`
- Add the swagger API unit test in `api/api_test.go`
- Optionally add swagger API integration tests in `cmd/api_test.go`

### Testing

- All new code should be accompanied by unit tests. Prefer focussed unit tests to integration tests for thorough validation of behaviour. Existing code is not necessarily a good model, here.
- Integration tests (in-process, daemon, or FAST) should test integration, not comprehensive functionality

### Code Style
- Make sure your code is formatted and pass `make lint` before submitting a PR.

### Code Generation
- Make sure all code generations are up-to-date before submitting a PR. To generate the code, run `make generate`.
